<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&klines;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &klines; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Roman</firstname>
<surname>Razilov</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>Roman.Razilov@gmx.de</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Roman</firstname>
<surname>Merzlyakov</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>roman@sbrf.barrt.ru</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<year>2001</year>
<holder>Roman Razilov,</holder>
<holder>Roman Merzlyakov</holder>
</copyright>
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2001-05-20</date>
<releaseinfo>0.6.10</releaseinfo>

<abstract><para>&klines; is a nice little game meant to amuse you for
anywhere from 3 minutes to 6 days(straight).</para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdegames</keyword>
<keyword>klines</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&klines; is a simple game. It is played by one player, so there is
only one winner :-) You play for fun and against the high score. It has
been inspired by well known game - <application>Color
lines</application>, written for DOS by Olga Demina, Igor Ivkin and
Gennady Denisov back at 1992.</para>

<para>In 2000 Roman Merzlyakov wrote a original version for &kde;. Roman
Roazilov added to it a cool <application>povray</application> generated
animation. Later in 2001 he ported it to &kde; 2 and made it conform to
the &kde; games standard.</para>

</chapter>


<chapter id="using-klines">
<title>Using &klines;</title>

<para>The main rules of game is as simple as possible: you move (using
mouse) marbles from cell to cell and build lines (horizontal, vertical
or diagonal).  When a line contains 5 or more marbels - they are removed
from the field and your score grows. After each of your turns computer
drops three more marbles onto the field.</para>

<para> The increase in score dependeds on the amount of erased marbles
and if &klines; shows the next balls.  The increase will be smaller if
you use the information of what's next.</para>

<sect1 id="klines-features">
<title>More &klines; features</title>

<para>&klines; is wonderful in that it will allow you to kill 5 minutes
while you wait for that program to compile.</para> <para>Or, if nothing
else, it will allow you to kill 5 minutes.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="commands">
<title>Command Reference</title>

<sect1 id="klines-mainwindow">
<title>The main &klines; window</title>

<para>There is a large area with marbles.  At the right side a bar
showing the next three marbles to be dropped on the field. Underneath
the field is the status bar. Above it is the menu bar.</para>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Game</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>G</accel>ame</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>N</accel>ew game</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Starts a new game</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>N</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>G</accel>ame</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Ne<accel>x</accel>t</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Skip your move</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>G</accel>ame</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>S</accel>how next</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggles the information on next marbles</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>H</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>G</accel>ame</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show <accel>h</accel>ighscore</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays the high score table</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>G</accel>ame</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>Q</accel>uit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Quits</action> &klines;</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>E</accel>dit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Und<accel>o</accel></guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>This will undo the last move.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="contents"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo><keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>H</accel>elp</guimenu><guimenuitem><accel>C</accel>ontents</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This invokes the KDE help system starting at the the top of this
help file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul"><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>H</accel>elp</guimenu><guimenuitem>What's
<accel>T</accel>his?</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This changes the mouse cursor to a combination arrow and question mark.
Clicking on items within &klines; with this arrow will open a help window (if
one exists for the particular item) explaining the item's function.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>H</accel>elp</guimenu><guimenuitem><accel>R</accel>eport
Bug.</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>If you find an error in the program, or you have an idea on how
to improve the game, clicking this option will let you send an official bug
report to the KDE team.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>H</accel>elp</guimenu><guimenuitem><accel>A</accel>bout
Klines</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This will <action>display version and author
information</action>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>H</accel>elp</guimenu><guimenuitem>About
<accel>K</accel>DE</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This <action>displays the KDE version</action> and other basic
information.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>&klines;</para>

<para>Program copyright 2000 Roman Merzlyakov
<email>roman@sbrf.barrt.ru</email></para>
<para>Contributors:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Roman Razilov <email>Roman.Razilov@gmx.de</email>
Redesign, Graphik, animation, partial re-write. Special thanks to my wife Larissa Juschkin for
testing and discussions.</para>
</listitem>

</itemizedlist>

<para>Documentation copyright 2001 Roman Razilov
<email>Roman.Razilov@gmx.de</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;               <!-- FDL: do not remove -->


&underGPL;        	 <!-- GPL License -->

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kapp">
<title>How to obtain &klines;</title>

<para>&klines; is part of the KDE project <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org">http://www.kde.org</ulink>.  &klines; can be found in the
kdegames package on <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/</ulink>, the main
ftp site of the KDE project. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>In order to successfully use &klines;, you need KDE 2.2. Or at least the
kdelibs package. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

<para>In order to compile and install &klines; on your system, type the following
in the base directory of the kdegames distribution:</para>

<screen width="40">

<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>./configure</command></userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command> install</userinput>
</screen>

<para>Since &klines; uses <application>autoconf</application> and
<application>automake</application> you should have not trouble compiling
it. Should you run into problems please report them to the KDE mailing
lists.</para> 

</sect1>

<sect1 id="customise">
<title>Generating marbles with <application>Povray</application></title>

<para>All pictures (<filename>klines/*.jpg</filename>) are
rendered with <application>Povray</application> 3.0 and manipulated 
with <application>ImageMagick</application>.
Povray &amp; bash scripts are in the directory <filename>klines/povray</filename>.
Customise <filename>balls.pov</filename> as you want, 
render and install it.</para>

<note><para>You need Povray 3.0 to render. In newer Versions i.e. 3.1
"halo" is supressed. </para></note>

<para>In order to generate marbles on your system, type the following
in the base directory of the kdegames distribution:</para>

<screen width="40">

<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>cd</command> klines</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command> install</userinput>
</screen>

</sect1>


</appendix>


&documentation.index;
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
End:
-->

